# Messages

Components within an Oschii configuration communicate with each other, and with the network, using *messages*. Some
types of component generate their own messages, others only respond to messages they receive.

An Oschii message is a zero-indexed list of values. Values within a message are called *arguments*, and these may be 
integers, decimal numbers, or strings. In this documentation messages are written as JSON arrays.

The following message contains three arguments, one of each type:

```json
[42, 4.2, "Seven times Eight"]
```

We refer to individual arguments using their index preceded by a dollar sign, so `$0` in the above message is the
integer `42`, and `$2` is the string `"Seven times Eight"`.

It is worth noting here that **every component contains exactly one message**. This may be a message it has generated
or the last message it received. Any component can refer to the current message of any other component.

### OSC

Oschii messages are basically the same as OSC messages. If an Oschii configuration defines a network Listener called
`MyLovelyListener` which expects two integer arguments, send the following command using CommsKit or similar:

```
/MyLovelyListener 65 1000
```

### HTTP

Oschii messages are represented in HTTP requests and responses as JSON arrays. For POST requests this is contained
within the body, for GET requests this is a query parameter called `message`.

If the above Listener is set to respond to HTTP GET requests, you can activate it by entering the following in your
web browser's address bar:

```
http://192.168.1.201/MyLovelyListener?message=[65,1000]
```

### Message Inspection

You can view the messages held by each component (and subcomponent) in the current
configuration by visiting this page:

```
http://192.168.1.201/messages.json
```

### Startup Messages

##### (from v1.1.0)

Oschii can send a set of messages when it starts up. These are sent *after* the device has 
connected to the network.

To do this, add a JSON array under the top-level key `"Startup"`. Each object in this array
consists of a Message Builder and a Target Component Reference (these are explained elsewhere in the 
documentation).

If the Startup array below is added to a configuration, Oschii will send two messages when it
first connects to the network. One will illuminate a local LED for two seconds, the other sends
a message to a reporter which causes an LED there to flash three times. The component definitions
are not shown.

```json
{
  "Startup": [
    {
      "message": [100, 50, 1950],
      "target": "Driver:Green"
    },
    {
      "message": [100, 50, 0, 0, 250, 0, -1, 3],
      "target": "Reporter:Bob/Green"
    }
  ]
}
```
