# Message Builders

A Message Builder builds a new message using hard-coded values, values from the incoming message, and
values from any other component.

A Message Builder is defined by a JSON array under the key `message`, and may contain integers, floats,
strings, and JSON objects. Each element becomes an argument (or arguments) of the outgoing message.
What each type means is described below.

### Integers and Floats

An integer or float (fractional) value in the array is simply copied into the new message. So this example:

```json
{
  "name": "MyComponent",
  "message": [ 101, 2.2 ]
}
```

Will produce the message: `[101, 2.2]`.

### Strings

A string value in the array is a reference to a particular argument in either the incoming message
or a specified Component. Components are referenced using the _Component Reference Syntax_ i.e. `Type:Name$argument`.
Messages are referenced in the form `message$argument`, or simply `$argument`.

If a Sensor called `Knob` currently holds the value `69` and the incoming message contains `[10, 20, 30]`
the following example:

```json
{
  "name": "MyComponent",
  "message": [ 101, 2.2, "Sensor:Knob$0", "$1" ]
}
```

Will produce the message: `[101, 2.2, 69, 20]`.

### String literals

By default, strings are treated as Component References. To include an actual string, start the string value with a 
single quote character ('). Oschii will remove this leading quote when building the message, and if the final character
of the string is also a single quote then it, too, will be removed.

Given the Sensor above, this example:

```json
{
  "name": "MyComponent",
  "message": [ "Sensor:Knob$0", "'Billy", "'goes'", "'fishin''" ]
}
```

Will produce the message: `[69, "Billy", "goes", "fishin'"]`. Note that we need two quotes at the end to get `fishin'`.

### Objects

A JSON object in the array provides the functionality of integers and strings, and allows some extra options.

| Property         | Description                                | Value                      | Default   |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------|-----------|
| `source`         | Component/message Reference                | string                     | "message" |
| `argumentRange`  | Take a range of arguments from the source  | "*" or Array of 2 integers |           |
| `valueTransform` | Applied to the value taken from the source | VT Object                  |           |

Using objects gives you the option of modifying the value with a Value Transform, and of adding multiple
arguments from the source to the outgoing message. This can be an inclusive range of argument indexes, or
the string `"*"` to take all arguments.

### Example

If a State called `StateA` contains the message `[22, 33, 44, 55, 66, 77]` and a State called `StateB` 
contains `[88, 99]` then this example:

```json
{
  "name": "MyComponent",
  "message": [
    {
      "source": "State:StateA$0",
      "valueTransform": { "scale": 0.5 }
    },
    {
      "source": "State:StateB",
      "argumentRange": "*"
    },
    {
      "source": "State:StateA",
      "argumentRange": [ 2, 4 ]
    }
  ]
}
```

Will produce the message: `[11, 88, 99, 44, 55, 66]`.
