# Sensors

A Sensor reads an integer value from the hardware, either using the ESP32's native functions or through a module 
connected to the  I<sup>2</sup>C bus.

Sensors are defined by JSON objects in a top-level array called `"Sensors"`.

Sensors read their value once per system cycle. If the value has changed since the last system cycle, the Sensor flags
itself as "changed" and sends a message to its `target` component(s), if any. This will also activate any Monitors that
are watching the Sensor.

If a [Condition](03a.Conditions.md) is defined on a Sensor, it is evaluated *before* reading from the hardware. 
If the Condition fails then the hardware will not be accessed. This is useful with Sensors that are slow to read, 
e.g. ultrasonics.

The message held by a Sensor (i.e. the value returned by a Component Reference such as `Sensor:MySensor$0`) will always
contain a single integer argument, which is the value read from the hardware. If a
[Value Transform](03c.ValueTransforms.md) is defined on the Sensor this will be applied to the value *before* it is 
stored within the message. Not all Sensor types support Value Transforms.

If a [Message Builder](03b.MessageBuilders.md) is defined on the Sensor, it will be evaluated whenever the Sensor's
value changes and the result will be sent to any `target` components. This will not affect the message held by the
Sensor itself. If there is no Message Builder, the Sensor's own message will be sent.

Sensors cannot receive messages, and do not support Subs.

### Sensor Types

There are four types of Sensor, and these can be divided into two groups:

- Binary Sensors
  - [GPIO](04a.GpioSensors.md)
  - [Touch](04b.TouchSensors.md)
- Sampling Sensors
  - [Analog](04c.AnalogSensors.md)
  - [HC-SR04](04d.HCSR04Sensors.md) (ultrasonic distance sensor)

The type of Sensor is determined by the `type` property in the component definition, which may be: `"gpio"`, `"touch"`,
`"analog"`, or `"hc-sr04"`.

### Binary Sensors

These read a binary (ON/OFF) state from the hardware, and each state is associated with an integer value (default 1 and 
-1). Defaults may be overridden by specifying an `onValue` and/or `offValue`.

The Sensor will only produce a "changed" event (and therefore send a message and trigger any Monitors) if the new
value is *not* -1. This means that the default behaviour for a GPIO or Touch Sensor is to produce the message `[1]` when
closed/touched and do nothing when it is opened/released.

The behaviour of ON/OFF can be swapped by setting the `invert` property to `true`.

Some push buttons and similar physical sensors have a tendency to "bounce" when pressed, i.e. they will produce several
ON/OFF transitions before finally settling. The `bounceFilter` property can be set to ignore subsequent state changes
for a specified number of milliseconds.

The `holdOnFilter` can be used to capture a "long press". The Sensor will only produce a "changed" event when the 
state has been ON for a specified number of milliseconds. It is possible to create multiple Sensor components on a 
single physical pin, each capturing a different hold length.

### Sampling Sensors

These read a continuous integer value from the hardware, and support "sampling" to smooth out jitter in the readings.
The `samples` property specifies how many samples to take for each reading, with the final result being the median
value from the sample set.

Sampling has two modes - "interleave" (default) and "block". In block mode the Sensor will take `samples` readings
per system cycle and return the median value. In interleave mode the Sensor will take a single reading per system
cycle and return the median value once `samples` readings have been taken. Block mode is only recommended for a
configuration with very few Sensors.

Sampling Sensors support Value Transforms.

### I<sup>2</sup>C

GPIO and Analog Sensors are available over the I<sup>2</sup>C bus. This can be enabled by setting the `i2cModule`
property.

NOTE: The value for this property is simply the name of the module, *not* a Component Reference, so you *DON'T*
need to write `I2C:NameOfModule` as you would when using an I2C module as a `target`.
