# Drivers

A Driver writes values to the hardware, either using the ESP32's native functions or through a module connected to the 
I<sup>2</sup>C bus.

Drivers are defined by JSON objects in a top-level array called `"Drivers"`.

A Driver is controlled by incoming messages. A single-argument message will immediately set the Driver's output to that
value. A multi-argument message will create an envelope that can control the Driver's output for a specified time, or
indefinitely. If an envelope is already playing on a Driver, subsequent messages will cancel it.

If a [Condition](03a.Conditions.md) is specified on a Driver, it will be evaluated each time the Driver receives a 
message. If the Condition fails, the message will be ignored.

Drivers do not support Message Builders or Subs, and cannot send messages. Some types of Driver support 
[Value Transforms](03c.ValueTransforms.md).

The `initialValue` property can be provided to set the Driver to a specified value
on startup.

### Driver Types

There are three types of Driver:

- [GPIO](05a.GpioDrivers.md)
- [PWM](05b.PwmDrivers.md)
- [AC Dimmer](05c.DimmerDrivers.md)

The type of Driver is determined by the `type` property in the component definition, which may be `"gpio"`, `"pwm"`, or
`"dimmer"`.

PWM and Dimmer Drivers support Value Transforms. GPIO Drivers do not.

### Envelopes

We can dynamically build an envelope to run on a Driver by sending it a multi-argument message.

For illustration purposes, assume the Driver has a Value Transform that converts percentage (0..100) values to 
12-bit (0..4095) values.

A single-argument message will simply set the Driver to the provided value.

e.g. `[ 50 ]` will set the Driver's value to 2048.

A two-argument message will fade the Driver from its current value to `$0` in `$1` milliseconds.

e.g. `[ 50, 1000 ]` will fade the Driver from its current value to 2048 in one second.

NOTE: Interpolation occurs on the `outputRange` side of the Value Transform (if there is one) to produce the smoothest
possible fade. 

A larger message defines multiple interpolation steps. Each triplet of values creates a step. It can be read as
"fade to `$0` in `$1`ms and hold for `$2`ms, then fade to `$3` in `$4`ms and hold for `$5`ms", etc.

e.g. `[ 100, 1000, 500, 25, 1000, 2000 ]` will fade the Driver to 4095 in one second, hold for half a second, then fade
to 1024 in one second and hold for two seconds.

A Driver will reset to 0 at the end of an envelope. To avoid this, simply omit the final hold time.

e.g. `[ 100, 1000, 500, 25, 1000 ]` will do the same as the last example but will stay at 1024 after the envelope
has finished.

We can make an envelope repeat by including a -1. If -1 is the last argument the envelope will repeat indefinitely. If
there is one more argument after the -1, that will be used as the repeat count.

e.g. `[ 100, 0, 500, 0, 0, 500, -1, 5 ]` will immediately set the Driver to 4095 (fade time is 0), hold for half a 
second, then set to 0 and hold for half a second. This pattern will repeat 5 times.

e.g. `[ 100, 0, 500, 0, 0, 500, -1 ]` will repeat the same pattern until the Driver receives a new message.

By default, Oschii will use cosine interpolation for envelopes. This can be changed by setting the
`interpolation` property. Valid values are `"cosine"` and `"linear"`.

### Auto-Listeners

We can automatically create a Listener to control a Driver by setting the `autoListener` property, which may be a
Boolean or a string.

If the `autoListener` property is omitted (or set to `false`), no Listener will be created. If it is set to `true`
then an OSC Listener will be created at the address `/NameOfDriver`.

If `autoListener` is set to `"get"` or `"post"`, an HTTP Listener will be created (on the same address) with the
appropriate HTTP method. The Listener will *also* accept OSC.

